.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" ams2psf.1: ams2psf man page
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, 2007, 2020 John Elliott
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" psftools: Manipulate console fonts in the .PSF format
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, 2007, 2020  John Elliott
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH ams2psf 1 "12 January, 2021" "Version 1.1.0" "PSF Tools"
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH NAME
ams2psf - convert an Amstrad CP/M font to a PC Screen Font file.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.B ams2psf
.RI [ "--codepage=CODEPAGE" ]
.RI [ "--psf1" ]
.RI [ "--psf2" ]
.RI [ INPUTFILE 
.RI [ OUTPUTFILE ]]
.P
.PD 1
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP 
ams2psf converts a file, presumed to contain an Amstrad CP/M font, to 
the .PSF format.
.LP 
The following file formats are auto-detected: LocoScript screen 
fonts (SCRCHAR.JOY); COM files created by psf2ams(1) or the PCW utilities 
SETFONT and LETAFONT; raw fonts of size 2048 or 4096 bytes. If none of 
these applies, ams2psf will search for the first 8 bytes of the standard 
PCW font within the input file; this will locate a font, provided that 
character zero has not been redefined. This allows the font to be extracted 
from a CP/M (or LocoScript 1) system file.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --codepage=CODEPAGE
Add a Unicode directory for the specified codepage, which can be identified by
number or name. See psfpages(1) for a list of valid codepage names.
.TP
.B --psf1
Force output in the PSF1 format.
.TP
.B --psf2
Force output in the PSF2 format (default).

.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH BUGS
The font search algorithm will produce odd results on EMS files used by 
LocoScript 2 and higher, since they store characters in a different order
from CP/M and LocoScript 1.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
psf2ams(1)
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
John Elliott <seasip.webmaster@gmail.com>.
.PP
