.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" cpi2psf.1: cpi2psf man page
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, 2007 John Elliott
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" psftools: Manipulate console fonts in the .PSF format
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, 2007  John Elliott
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH cpi2psf 1 "21 June, 2008" "Version 1.0.8" "PSF Tools"
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH NAME
cpi2psf - extract a font from a DOS codepage (.CPI)
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.B cpi2psf
.RI [ "--height=x" ]
.RI [ "--codepage=nnn" ]
.RI [ "--psf1" ]
.RI [ "--psf2" ]
.RI INPUTFILE 
.RI [ OUTPUTFILE ]
.P
.PD 1
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
cpi2psf extracts a font from a DOS codepage (.CPI) file. All known
codepage file formats are supported (MSDOS, DRDOS, Windows NT, and Linux).
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --height=x
Extract the font with the specified height. Otherwise the first height found 
will be used.
.TP
.B --codepage=nnn
Extract only the specified codepage as a 256-character font. If this option is
not present, all the characters of the requested size from all the codepages
in the font will be extracted, with duplicates being merged. nnn must be a
numeric codepage specifier such as 437 or 850.
.TP
.B --psf1
Outputs in PSF1 format. It is recommended that this is only used if the 
--codepage option is also present, otherwise the resulting PSF1 file may not
hold all the characters from the codepage.
.TP
.B --psf2
Outputs in PSF2 format (default).
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH BUGS
.LP
If no filename is provided, the program will attempt to load its input
file from standard input. The success of this operation depends on the
internal structure of the CPI file, and the capabilities of the C 
library.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
psfs2cpi(1), cpicomp(1), cpidcomp(1)
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
John Elliott <jce@seasip.demon.co.uk>.
.PP
