.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" cpidcomp.1: cpidcomp man page
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, 2007 John Elliott
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" psftools: Manipulate console fonts in the .PSF format
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, 2007  John Elliott
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH cpidcomp 1 "21 June, 2008" "Version 1.0.8" "PSF Tools"
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH NAME
cpidcomp - compress a CPI codepage by converting it to DRFONT format
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.B cpidcomp
.RI [ --nointer ]
.RI [ --nt ]
.RI [ INPUTFILE 
.RI [ OUTPUTFILE ]]
.P
.PD 1
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
cpidcomp converts codepage from the efficient but DRDOS-specific DRFONT
format to the more wasteful FONT or FONT.NT format.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.B --nointer
Normally CPI files are saved interleaved, with the data for each 
codepage following immediately after the header. With this option,
all the headers are saved followed by all the data. Some utilities
will not handle this layout very well.
.B --nt
Save in the FONT.NT format used by Windows NT rather than the FONT
format used by MSDOS.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\".SH BUGS
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
cpicomp(1)
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
John Elliott <seasip.webmaster@gmail.com>.
.PP
