.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" fnt2psf.1: fnt2psf man page
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, 2007 John Elliott
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" psftools: Manipulate console fonts in the .PSF format
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, 2007  John Elliott
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH fnt2psf 1 "21 June, 2008" "Version 1.0.8" "PSF Tools"
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH NAME
fnt2psf - Convert a Windows font-resource file to PSF format
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.B fnt2psf
.RI [ "--codepage=page" ]
.RI [ "--psf1" ]
.RI [ "--psf2" ]
.RI [ INPUTFILE 
.RI [ OUTPUTFILE ]]
.P
.PD 1
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
fnt2psf converts a Windows font-resource file (.FNT) to PSF format. A
warning is displayed if the file is not monospaced, but the conversion
will go ahead anyway.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --psf1
Force output in the PSF1 format.
.TP
.B --psf2
Force output in the PSF2 format (default).
.TP
.B --codepage=page
Add a Unicode directory for the specified codepage, which can be identified
by number or name. See psfpages(1) for a list of valid codepage names.
If this option is not supplied, the program will assume codepage 437 for 
fonts in the "OEM" character set, and 1252 for fonts in the "ANSI" character
set.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\".SH BUGS
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
psf2raw(1), mda2psf(1), psfpages(1)
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
John Elliott <jce@seasip.demon.co.uk>.
.PP
