.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" fnts2fon.1: fnts2fon man page
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, 2007 John Elliott
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" psftools: Manipulate console fonts in the .PSF format
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, 2007  John Elliott
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH fnts2fon 1 "21 June, 2008" "Version 1.0.8" "PSF Tools"
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH NAME
fnts2fon - Construct a Windows .FON file from one or more .FNT files
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.B fnts2fon
.RI [ "--fontid=IDSTRING" ]
.RI [ "--winver=MAJOR.MINOR" ]
.RI [ "other options..." ]
INPUTFILE
.RI [ "INPUTFILE ..." ]
OUTPUTFILE
.P
.PD 1
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
fnts2fon attempts to combine one or more Windows FNT files into a FON file. 
This procedure is shrouded in darkness and mystery, dimly illuminated by the 
Microsoft Knowledge Base article 
<http://support.microsoft.com/support/kb/articles/Q76/5/35.ASP>
and the NE file format.
.LP 
If you are running fnts2fon in the Cygwin environment, you will need to 
grant execute permission to the resulting .FON file using chmod(1) before 
Windows can use it.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
Note that apart from --fontid and possibly --winver, the other options should 
not be necessary unless you are trying to produce output byte-by-byte
identical to an existing Windows font.
.TP
.B --fontid="string"
Sets the font resolution / description string. This is normally formed 
"FONTRES nn,nn,nn : Description". It must begin FONTRES for Windows 3.x and 9x
to recognise the font. By default the string used is 
"FONTRES 200,96,48 : 
.I <fontname>
".
.TP 
Under MS-DOS, use underlines to represent spaces - for example, 
.B --fontid=FONTRES_83,60,72_:_Times_Roman
.TP
.B --winver=MAJOR.MINOR
Sets the Windows version required in the output file. The MAJOR and MINOR 
are treated as separate numbers, so --winver=3.1 and --winver=3.01 are the
same, but --winver=3.1 and --winver=3.10 are different. Windows 2.x and 3.0
still load fonts marked as for version 3.1 so this option may not have 
much practical use.

.TP
.B "--checksum16=nnn and --checksum32=nnn"
Set the 16-bit checksum in the DOS header, and the 32-bit checksum in the
Windows header. Windows does not appear to check these.

.TP
.B --dosmsg
Sets the message to display if the font is renamed to .EXE and run from DOS.

.TP
.B --idbase=nnn
Sets the resource ID to allocate to the first font.

.TP
.B --idstep=nnn
Sets the increment to add to the resource ID. 

.TP
.B --linkver=MAJOR.MINOR
Set the version of the linker that supposedly created this file. The same 
caveats apply as for --winver.

.TP
.B --modname=NAME
Set the name of the program that was supposedly assembled to make this file.

.TP
.B --mzextra=NNN
Sets the value in word 2 of the 'MZ' file header.
.TP
.B --stub=nnn
Set the DOS stub to use. They all do exactly the same thing, but in 
slightly different ways.

.TP
.B --sysfont=nnn
Mark font 
.I nnn
as a system font.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH BUGS
.LP
Does not appear to work with vector .FNT files, only raster ones.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
cpi2psf(1), cpicomp(1), cpidcomp(1)
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
John Elliott <jce@seasip.demon.co.uk>.
.PP
