.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" mda2psf.1: mda2psf man page
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, 2007 John Elliott
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" psftools: Manipulate console fonts in the .PSF format
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, 2007  John Elliott
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH mda2psf 1 "21 June, 2008" "Version 1.0.8" "PSF Tools"
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH NAME
mda2psf - extract the font from a dump of the IBM PC MDA ROM
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.B mda2psf
.RI [ "--codepage=page" ]
.RI [ "--compaq" ]
.RI [ INPUTFILE 
.RI [ OUTPUTFILE ]]
.P
.PD 1
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
mda2psf converts the 14-pixel font in the character ROM used by IBM's MDA and
CGA video cards to PC Screen Font format. raw2psf(1) can handle most ROM dumps
(including the two 8-pixel fonts in this ROM), but the 14-pixel font requires
a specialised utility.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --codepage=page
Add a Unicode directory for the specified codepage, which can be 
identified by number or name. The original MDA ROM used codepage
437. See psfpages(1) for a list of valid codepage names.
.TP
.B --compaq
Assume the input file is in the format used by the Compaq CGA ROM, not the 
IBM MDA/CGA ROM.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\".SH BUGS
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
psfs2mda(1), raw2psf(1), psfpages(1)
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
John Elliott <seasip.webmaster@gmail.com>.
.PP
