.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" psf2wyse.1: psf2wyse man page
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, 2007 John Elliott
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" psftools: Manipulate console fonts in the .PSF format
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, 2007  John Elliott
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH psf2wyse 1 "21 June, 2008" "Version 1.0.8" "PSF Tools"
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH NAME
psf2wyse - convert a PC Screen Font file to a Wyse-60 soft font
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.B psf2wyse
.RI [ "--bank=BANK" ]
.RI [ "--dest=DEST" ]
.RI [ "--height=HEIGHT" ]
.RI [ "--first=FIRST" ]
.RI [ "--last=LAST" ]
.RI [ "--nulls=COUNT" ]
.RI [ INPUTFILE 
.RI [ OUTPUTFILE ]]
.P
.PD 1
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP 
psf2wyse converts a font in the .PSF format to a soft-font suitable for use
with Wyse-60 and compatible terminals. The resulting soft-font can be saved
as a text file, or just sent straight to the terminal.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --bank=BANK
The Wyse-60 has four banks of 128 characters each, numbered 0 to 3. By default
the first two contain the 16-pixel font used in 25-line modes, and the second
two contain the 9-pixel font used in 43-line modes. This option sets the 
first bank to load into; note that psf2wyse will load into subsequent banks 
if there are more characters in the font than will fit into one.
.TP
.B --dest=DEST
Specifies the first character to populate in the destination bank. By default 
this is zero.
.TP 
.B --first=FIRST
Starts generating the font at character FIRST.
.TP 
.B --last=LAST
Finishes generating the font after doing character LAST.
.TP 
.B --height=HEIGHT
Sets the height of the characters which will be sent to the terminal. By 
default this is 16, whatever the height of the font being converted; on a 
Wyse-60, attempts to define characters at other heights appear to be ignored.
.TP 
.B --nulls=COUNT
After sending the definition for a character, send COUNT null bytes. This 
appears to be necessary to make sure the terminal doesn't miss the start of a 
character while it's still processing the previous character. By default 
COUNT is 8.

.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH BUGS
The terminal screen tends to flicker like crazy while characters not in the 
current bank are being defined.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
pat2sf(1), sf2pat(1), wyse2psf(1)
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
John Elliott <jce@seasip.demon.co.uk>.
.PP
