.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" psf2raw.1: psf2raw man page
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, 2007 John Elliott
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" psftools: Manipulate console fonts in the .PSF format
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, 2007  John Elliott
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH psf2raw 1 "11 April, 2008" "Version 1.0.7" "PSF Tools"
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH NAME
psf2raw - convert part or all of a PC Screen Font file to a raw font
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.B psf2raw
.RI [ "--first=FIRST" ]
.RI [ "--last=LAST" ]
.RI [ "--256" ]
.RI [ "--flip" ]
.RI [ "--codepage=CODEPAGE" ]
.RI [ INPUTFILE 
.RI [ OUTPUTFILE ]]
.P
.PD 1
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
psf2raw saves some or all characters from a .PSF font as a raw file (plain
font data); this format is frequently used by console font editors under 
DOS and other platforms.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --codepage=x
Extracts only the characters in the given codepage (requires the source
PSF file to have a Unicode directory). Any characters in the codepage not
present in the source font are replaced by blanks. The codepage can be
specified by number or name; see psfpages(1) for a list of acceptable 
codepage names.
.TP
.B --first=n
Extracts characters starting at the specified character. 
.TP
.B --last=n
Extracts characters up to and including the specified character. 
.TP
.B --256
Equivalent to --first=0 --last=255.
.TP
.B --flip
Reverses the order if bits in each byte. Used to export to systems such as
the Apricot Xi where the mapping of bits to pixels is the reverse of the 
convention on PC hardware.
.LP
If a codepage and a range of characters are both specified, the range
is applied to the subset of characters extracted by the codepage.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\".SH BUGS
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
raw2psf(1), psfpages(1)
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
John Elliott <jce@seasip.demon.co.uk>.
.PP
