.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" psf2zx.1: psf2zx man page
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, 2007 John Elliott
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" psftools: Manipulate console fonts in the .PSF format
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, 2007  John Elliott
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH psf2zx 1 "21 June, 2008" "Version 1.0.8" "PSF Tools"
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH NAME
psf2zx - convert a PSF font to Spectrum format
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.B psf2zx
.RI [ "--tap" ]
.RI [ "--naked" ]
.RI [ "--rom=romfile" ]
.RI [ "--sna=snapfile" ]
.RI [ "--mode=bare" ]
.RI [ "--mode=merge1" ]
.RI [ INPUTFILE 
.RI [ OUTPUTFILE ]]
.P
.PD 1
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
psf2zx converts a PSF font into a font suitable for use on a Sinclair
Spectrum.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --p3dos
Sets the output format to Spectrum +3DOS, with a 128-byte header followed
by the font data. This is the default output format.
.TP
.B --tap
Sets the output format to .TAP (Spectrum emulator tape image). The resulting
TAP image will contain a single file called T:font.bin.
.TP
.B --naked
Sets the output format to a simple 768-byte binary file will be
written, with no header or trailer records.
.TP
.B --rom=romfile
Sets the output to be a Spectrum ROM, based on the ROM image in 
.I romfile.
The file written will be a copy of 
.I romfile
but with the font replaced by the result of psf2zx.
.TP
.B --sna=snapfile
.LP
Sets the output to be a .SNA snapshot, based on the snapshot passed as
.I snapfile.
The file written will be a copy of 
.I snapfile
but with the font replaced by the result of psf2zx.
.LP
This depends on the CHARS system variable having been set up so that the 
game outputs using the ROM routines; if the program in the snapshot uses 
some other form of output, it may leave CHARS alone or set it to a random 
value. For example, the font in the game 
.I 2112
cannot be replaced using this method.
.TP
.B --mode=raw
Copies characters 32-127 from the PSF file, without attempting to translate
the pound sign, up arrow or copyright symbol. This is the default conversion
mode if the source file has no Unicode directory.
.TP
.B --mode=merge1
Copies characters from the PSF file, converting the pound sign, up arrow and
copyright symbol. This is the default conversion if the source file has a 
Unicode directory. If this option is selected but the source file has no 
Unicode directory, it will be assumed to be using a variant of the
ISO-8859-1 codepage with the up-arrow at character position 18h (based on
LAT1-08.PSF supplied with Linux).
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH BUGS
The behaviour of the 'merge1' mode is ugly when applied to non-Unicode PSF 
files.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
zx2psf(1)
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
John Elliott <jce@seasip.demon.co.uk>.
.PP
