.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" psf2fnt.1: psf2fnt man page
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, 2007 John Elliott
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" psftools: Manipulate console fonts in the .PSF format
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, 2007  John Elliott
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH psf2fnt 1 "21 June, 2008" "Version 1.0.8" "PSF Tools"
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH NAME
psf2fnt - Convert a PC Screen Font file to a Windows font-resource file
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.B psf2fnt
.RI [ "--ascent=ASC" ]
.RI [ "--bold" ]
.RI [ "--brkchar=CHAR" ]
.RI [ "--copy=COPYRIGHT" ]
.RI [ "--codepage=CODEPAGE" ]
.RI [ "--charset=CHARSET" ]
.RI [ "--defchar=DEFAULT" ]
.RI [ "--firstchar=FIRST" ]
.RI [ "--fontname=NAME" ]
.RI [ "--horzres=DPI" ]
.RI [ "--italic" ]
.RI [ "--lastchar=CHAR" ]
.RI [ "--pointsize=SIZE" ]
.RI [ "--version=FORMAT" ]
.RI [ "--vertres=DPI" ]
.RI [ INPUTFILE 
.RI [ OUTPUTFILE ]]
.P
.PD 1
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
psf2fnt saves some or all characters from a .PSF font as a Windows 
font-resource file, as used by the Windows SDK tool FONTEDIT. The 
resulting file can then be processed with fnts2fon(1) to create an
installable font.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --ascent
Sets the distance from the baseline to the top of the character. This defaults
to the height of the font, minus 1.
.TP
.B --bold
Marks the resulting font as bold.
.TP
.B --brkchar=nnn
Sets the index of the character used to print word breaks. Defaults to 32
(space).
.TP
.B --charset=charset
Sets the character set of the resulting font. This can be one of the words 
ANSI, OEM or SYMBOL; or a numeric value.
.TP
.B --codepage=x
Extracts only the characters in the given codepage (requires the source
PSF file to have a Unicode directory). Any characters in the codepage not
present in the source font are replaced by blanks. The codepage can be
specified by number or name; see psfpages(1) for a list of acceptable 
codepage names.
.TP
.B --copy=string
Sets the copyright string in the resulting font. Note that spaces will have
to be escaped to hide them from the shell.
.TP
.B --defchar=nnn
Sets the index of the character used to display out-of-range characters. 
Defaults to 46 (full stop).
.TP
.B --first=n
Extracts characters starting at the specified character.
.TP
.B --fontname=name
Sets the name of the output font.
.TP
.B --horzres=nnn
Sets the horizontal resolution of the font in DPI. Defaults to 48.
.TP
.B --italic
Marks the font as italic.
.TP
.B --last=n
Extracts characters up to and including the specified character. 
.TP
.B --pointsize=n
Sets the font point size. This defaults to the font height in pixels.
.TP
.B --version=n
Sets the file format version. This can be 1, 2 or 3. Version 1.0.8uld only be 
used if you are creating a font for Windows 1.0. Version 1.0.8uld be used if 
the font is less than 64k in size; otherwise, use Version 3.
.LP
If a codepage and a range of characters are both specified, the range
is applied to the subset of characters extracted by the codepage.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\".SH BUGS
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
fnt2psf(1), psfpages(1)
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
John Elliott <seasip.webmaster@gmail.com>.
.PP
