.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" psf2bdf.1: psf2bdf man page
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, 2007 John Elliott
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" psftools: Manipulate console fonts in the .PSF format
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, 2007  John Elliott
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH psf2bdf 1 "21 June, 2008" "Version 1.0.8" "PSF Tools"
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH NAME
psf2bdf - convert part or all of a PSF Font file to an X11 BDF.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.B psf2bdf
.RI [ "--first=FIRST" ]
.RI [ "--last=LAST" ]
.RI [ "--256" ]
.RI [ "--fontname=NAME" ]
.RI [ "--defchar=INDEX" ]
.RI [ "--descent=VALUE" ]
.RI [ "--codepage=CODEPAGE" ]
.RI [ "--iso10646" ]
.RI [ INPUTFILE 
.RI [ OUTPUTFILE ]]
.P
.PD 1
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
psf2bdf saves some or all characters from a .PSF font to an X11-format BDF
font file. The resulting file should then be tidied up in an editor such
as xmbdfed(1) before being installed.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --codepage=x
Extracts only the characters in the given codepage (requires the source
PSF file to have a Unicode directory). Any characters in the codepage not
present in the source font are replaced by blanks. The codepage can be
specified by number or name; see psfpages(1) for a list of acceptable 
codepage names.
.TP
.B --first=n
Extracts characters starting at the specified character. 
.TP
.B --last=n
Extracts characters up to and including the specified character. 
.TP
.B --256
Equivalent to --first=0 --last=255.
.TP
.B --fontname=name
Sets the XLFD name of the font being output.
.TP
.B --descent=n 
Sets the descent (pixels between the character baseline and the bottom of the
character cell). If this is not entered it is assumed to be 1/4 of the 
character height.
.TP
.B --defchar=n
Sets the number of the default character to use.
.TP
.B --iso10646
If this option is present and the source file has a Unicode directory, the 
font will encode the ID of each character as its Unicode position. Otherwise
the character's ID is equal to its position in the file.
.LP
If a codepage and a range of characters are both specified, the range
is applied to the subset of characters extracted by the codepage.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH BUGS
The BDF needs tidying up after generation, as mentioned above.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
xmbdfed(1),psfpages(1)
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
John Elliott <jce@seasip.demon.co.uk>.
.PP
