.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" psf2bsd.1: psf2bsd man page
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, 2007 John Elliott
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" psftools: Manipulate console fonts in the .PSF format
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, 2007  John Elliott
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH psf2bsd 1 "21 June, 2008" "Version 1.0.8" "PSF Tools"
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH NAME
psf2bsd - convert a PC Screen Font file to a BSD soft-font kernel header
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.B psf2bsd
.RI [ "--name=NAME" ]
.RI [ "--typeface=NAME" ]
.RI [ "--encoding=ENC" ]
.RI [ "--first=FIRST" ]
.RI [ "--last=LAST" ]
.RI [ INPUTFILE 
.RI [ OUTPUTFILE ]]
.P
.PD 1
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
psf2bsd converts a font in the .PSF format to the format used by the
NetBSD 'wsfont' kernel headers.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --name=NAME
Sets the name of the C structure that will contain the font. This defaults
to 'font'. For example, --name=bold8x16
.TP
.B --typeface=NAME
Sets the displayed name of the typeface. For example, --name=Boldface
.TP
.B --encoding=ENC
Sets the encoding to use. This should be one of the WSDISPLAY_FONTENC_* 
macros. For convenience, you can also use --encoding=437 as shorthand for 
WSDISPLAY_FONTENC_IBM and --encoding=819 for WSDISPLAY_FONTENC_ISO.
.TP
.B --first=FIRST
Sets the first character to include in the output file.
.TP
.B --last=LAST
Sets the last character to include in the output file.


.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH BUGS
For anything other than the simplest test cases, horizontal alignment
of the output will almost certainly look untidy.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\".SH SEE ALSO
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
John Elliott <seasip.webmaster@gmail.com>.
.PP
