.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" psf2inc.1: psf2inc man page
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, 2007 John Elliott
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" psftools: Manipulate console fonts in the .PSF format
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, 2007  John Elliott
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH psf2inc 1 "21 June, 2008" "Version 1.0.8" "PSF Tools"
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH NAME
psf2inc - convert a PC Screen Font file to text
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.B psf2inc
.RI [ "--asm" ]
.RI [ "--psf1" ]
.RI [ "--psf2" ]
.RI [ INPUTFILE 
.RI [ OUTPUTFILE ]]
.P
.PD 1
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
psf2inc converts a font in the .PSF format to a textual format which
can be #included by a C compiler. Alternatively, it can output in 
an assembler syntax compatible with Digital Research's RASM86. The
aim is to make it possible to embed a .PSF font in a program.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --asm
Output in RASM86 format.
.TP
.B --psf1
Converts the font to PSF1 format before dumping it as text.
.TP
.B --psf2
Converts the font to PSF2 format before dumping it as text.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\".SH BUGS
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\".SH SEE ALSO
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
John Elliott <jce@seasip.demon.co.uk>.
.PP
