.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" psfpages.1: psfpages man page
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, 2007 John Elliott
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" psftools: Manipulate console fonts in the .PSF format
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, 2007  John Elliott
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH psfpages 1 "11 April, 2008" "Version 1.0.7" "PSF Tools"
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH NAME
psfpages - list codepages known to the PSF Tools
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.B psfpages
.RI [ codepages ]
.P
.PD 1
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
If run with no arguments, psfpages lists the codepages supported by 
the psftools utilities.
.LP 
If one or more codepage names is supplied, psfpages dumps the contents
of the mapping tables for the named codepages.
.LP
There are currently three sorts of codepage compiled into the psftools:
ISO 8859 codepages, referred to by encoding name (eg "8859-1"); 
numbered codepages, referred to by their number (eg "CP437" or just "437")
and nonstandard codepages. Currently the nonstandard codepages are:
.IP AMSTRAD
The codepage used by CP/M on the Amstrad PCW, CPC and Spectrum +3.
.IP BBCMICRO
The codepage used by the BBC Micro (covers characters 32-127 only).
.IP PCGEM
The codepage used by GEM on the IBM PC.
.IP "PPC437, PPC860, PPC865, PPCGREEK"
The codepages used by the character ROM on Amstrad PPC laptops and their
desktop counterpart, the Sinclair PC200. These differ slightly from the
standard codepages 437, 860 and 865 to avoid confusion between the 'epsilon'
and 'element-of' characters.
.LP The numbered and ISO pages are based partly on the CPnnn.TXT files 
from Unicode.org, and partly from the *.uni files supplied with 
the Linux kbd-1.12 utilities. In most cases they have been modified
to replace the control code entries with the glyphs that are actually 
observed in the fonts. For example, compare unicode.org's CP437.TXT 
with the output of psfpages for codepage 437.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH BUGS
.LP
The AMSTRAD character 7Fh (zero without a slash) has been mapped to 
U+FF10 FULLWIDTH DIGIT ZERO, rather than to U+0030 DIGIT ZERO. This is 
not ideal, but it avoids the information loss of mapping two different 
character shapes to the same codepoint.
.LP
The PCGEM character 0Ah (bell) has been mapped to U+237E BELL SYMBOL, 
but it's not the same sort of bell at all; the GEM character is a dingbat, 
but the Unicode bell is a symbol for a circuit diagram.
.LP
Six characters in the PCGEM character set (0DAh to 0DFh) appear not to be 
used, and display as blank in all known PCGEM fonts. Their mapping entries
reflect this status; they will be ignored when a Unicode directory is being
created, and set to blank when a PSF is written with this codepage.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\".SH SEE ALSO
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
John Elliott <jce@seasip.demon.co.uk>.
.PP
