.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" psfs2mda.1: psfs2mda man page
.\" Copyright (c) 2008 John Elliott
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" psftools: Manipulate console fonts in the .PSF format
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, 2007  John Elliott
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH psfs2mda 1 "21 June, 2008" "Version 1.0.8" "PSF Tools"
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH NAME
psfs2mda - extract the font from a dump of the IBM PC MDA ROM
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.B psfs2mda
.RI [ "--compaq" ]
.RI [ "--comment=text" ]
INPUT14 INPUT8
.RI [ INPUT8_ALT ]
OUTPUTFILE 
.P
.PD 1
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
psfs2mda generates an MDA character ROM image from two or three PSF-format 
screen fonts. The output file can be used to create a new character ROM for
an original IBM CGA or MDA, or (with the --compaq option) a Compaq CGA.
.LP 
You must supply either two or three input files. The first file is used for 
the 14-pixel font, the second for the 8-pixel font, and the third, if 
present, for the alternative (thin) 8-pixel font. If the third file is not
present, psfs2mda will attempt to use characters 256-511 of the second file.
If the second file only has 256 characters, the alternative 8-pixel font will 
be the same as the main 8-pixel font.
.LP
Note that the physical ROM chip used in an IBM MDA or CGA is a 9264, with a 
pinout which differs from the normal 27xx range.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --compaq
Output a ROM image suitable for the Compaq Portable/Deskpro CGA, rather than
the IBM MDA/CGA.
.TP
.B --comment=message
When outputting in Compaq format, it is possible to embed a message (usually
a copyright message) in unused bytes of the ROM. This option sets the message 
to include.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\".SH BUGS
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
psf2raw(1), mda2psf(1)
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
John Elliott <seasip.webmaster@gmail.com>.
.PP
