.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" psfs2cpi.1: psfs2cpi man page
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, 2007 John Elliott
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" psftools: Manipulate console fonts in the .PSF format
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, 2007  John Elliott
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH psfs2cpi 1 "11 April, 2008" "Version 1.0.7" "PSF Tools"
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH NAME
psfs2cpi - Construct a .CPI codepage from one or more PSF files
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.B psfs2cpi
.RI [ "--device=DEV" ]
.RI [ "--comment=TEXT" ]
.RI [ "--drfont" ]
.RI [ "--nt" ]
[ +CODEPAGE | +CODEPAGE=CPNAME ]
INPUTFILE
.RI [ "INPUTFILE ..." ]
.RI [ "+CODEPAGE INPUTFILE"
.RI [ "INPUTFILE ..." ]]
OUTPUTFILE
.P
.PD 1
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
psfs2cpi combines one or more PSF files into a CPI file. 
.LP
When run, it takes a list of codepage numbers. Each number should then be
followed by the names of one or more PSF files, from which the character
shapes should be obtained. For example, the command:
.LP
psfs2cpi +437 eg8.psf eg16.psf +850 eg8.psf eg16.psf +860 eg8.psf eg16.psf 
+863 eh8.psf eh16.psf eg.cpi
.LP
will generate a CPI file called eg.cpi, containing codepages 
437, 850, 860 and 863 in two sizes. The first three codepages will have
been based on eg8.psf and eg16.psf; the last on eh8.psf and eh16.psf.
.LP 
A codepage number can be followed by a directive saying which mapping table will
actually be used. For example, if the start of the above command had read:
.LP
psfs2cpi +437=PPC437 ...
.LP
then codepage 437 would have been generated using the slightly different PPC437
mapping.
.LP
If the PSF files in question have Unicode directories, and the codepage
is one of the ones known to psfs2cpi, then the appropriate glyphs will be
extracted from the file; this is how three code pages can be based on a
single PSF file. If the codepage number is not known, or the PSF file has
no Unicode directory, then the first 256 characters of the PSF file
will be used.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --device=devname
Sets the device name to store in the codepage file. This defaults to "EGA";
if you are generating a codepage file for the IBM Convertible, it should be
set to "LCD".
.TP
.B --comment=comment
Sets a comment which will be added to the end of the CPI file, such as a 
copyright message.
.TP
.B --drfont
Outputs in the compressed format used by DRDOS.
.TP
.B --nt
Outputs in the FONT.NT format used by Windows NT.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\".SH BUGS
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
cpi2psf(1), cpicomp(1), cpidcomp(1)
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
John Elliott <jce@seasip.demon.co.uk>.
.PP
