.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" psfxform.1: psfxform man page
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, 2007 John Elliott
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" psftools: Manipulate console fonts in the .PSF format
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, 2007  John Elliott
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH psfxform 1 "11 April, 2008" "Version 1.0.7" "PSF Tools"
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH NAME
psfxform - Apply various transformations to a PC Screen Font file
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.B psfxform
.RI [ "--first=FIRST" ]
.RI [ "--last=LAST" ]
.RI [ "--256" ]
.RI [ "--bold=RANGE" ]
.RI [ "--centre=RANGE" ]
.RI [ "--double=RANGE" ]
.RI [ "--flip=RANGE" ]
.RI [ "--repeat=RANGE" ]
.RI [ "--scale=RANGE" ]
.RI [ "--thin=RANGE" ]
.RI [ "--strip" ]
.RI [ "--width=WIDTH" ]
.RI [ "--height=HEIGHT" ]
.RI [ "--codepage=CODEPAGE" ]
.RI [ "--setcodepage=CODEPAGE" ]
.RI [ "--permute=FILE" ]
.RI [ "--psf1" ]
.RI [ "--psf2" ]
.RI [ INPUTFILE 
.RI [ OUTPUTFILE ]]
.P
.PD 1
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
psfxform extracts some or all characters from a font in the .PSF format, 
applies various transformations, and saves the result as another .PSF font. 
Subsets can be extracted as a range of characters, as a codepage, or both.
.LP
The character ranges passed to --bold, --double and so on are optional. 
If present, they are formed as a comma-separated list - each element is
.RI nnn
for a single character, 
.RI nnn-nnn
for a contiguous set of characters. For example, to apply --repeat to
characters 8,10 and 179 to 223: 
.B --repeat=8,10,179-223
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --codepage=x
Extracts only the characters in the given codepage (requires the source
PSF file to have a Unicode directory). Any characters in the codepage not
present in the source font are replaced by blanks. The codepage can be
specified by number or name; see psfpages(1) for a list of acceptable 
codepage names.
.TP
.B --setcodepage=x
Replace any Unicode information in the extracted font by the Unicode 
mappings for the specified codepage. Note that this option does not change
the character bitmaps in any way.
.TP
.B --strip
Forces the output font to be written with no Unicode directory, even if the
source font had one.
.TP
.B --first=n
Extracts characters starting at the specified character. 
.TP
.B --last=n
Extracts characters up to and including the specified character. 
.TP
.B --256
Equivalent to --first=0 --last=255.
.TP
.B --permute=filename
Rearrange the character bitmaps in the output file. This only affects 
character bitmaps, not the Unicode directory. The filename passed to --permute
can be "-" for standard input; its format should be a series of lines, each
containing two numbers separated by a comma. The first number is the character
number to change from, and the second is the number to change to. For example, 
two lines, the first reading "65,66" and the second reading "66,65", will 
swap the glyphs for A and B. Anything after a # or ; is a comment. The numbers
used relate to the source file, before any subset is extracted.
.TP
.B --width
Alter the character cell width in the target font. This doesn't scale 
characters; it's Procrustean, so glyphs are either packed with whitespace 
or cropped.
.TP
.B --height
Alter the character cell height in the target font.
.TP
.B --bold=RANGE
Makes characters bold by drawing them twice. Note that if no --width option
is supplied, this will make the target font one pixel wider than the source
font.
.TP
.B --centre=RANGE
If the character cell is being made larger or smaller, aligns character cells
by their centres rather than by their top left-hand corners. The spelling 
--center is also recognised.
.B --double=RANGE
Doubles each row in the source character. This should be used with the --height
option to increase the number of character rows, otherwise only the top half
of each character will be used.
.TP
.B --flip=RANGE
Mirror characters left/right.
.B --repeat=RANGE
When increasing the size with --height or --width, repeat the last character
row and column into new rows/columns, rather than leaving them blank. This may
help to keep line graphic characters joined up. When combined with --centre,
characters will be expanded at all four edges if necessary.
.TP
.B --scale=RANGE
If the character cell is being made larger or smaller, attempts to scale 
the characters to fit. This will probably look awful unless the new size is
an exact multiple of the old size, or unless you tidy the characters by hand
afterwards.
.TP
.B --thin=RANGE
Makes characters thin by reducing vertical lines wider than one pixel.
.TP
.B --psf1
Forces output to be in PSF1 format.
.TP
.B --psf2
Forces output to be in PSF2 format.
.LP
If a codepage and --first / --last are both specified, the --first / --last
apply to the subset of characters extracted by the codepage. Similarly 
all character ranges on --bold, --thin etc. apply to the extracted subset.

.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\".SH BUGS
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
psfpages(1)
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
John Elliott <jce@seasip.demon.co.uk>.
.PP
