.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" raw2psf.1: raw2psf man page
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, 2007 John Elliott
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" psftools: Manipulate console fonts in the .PSF format
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, 2007  John Elliott
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH raw2psf 1 "21 June, 2008" "Version 1.0.8" "PSF Tools"
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH NAME
raw2psf - convert a headerless monospaced font to PSF format
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.B raw2psf
.RI [ "--height=x" ]
.RI [ "--width=x" ]
.RI [ "--skip=x" ]
.RI [ "--first=x" ]
.RI [ "--last=x" ]
.RI [ "--codepage=page" ]
.RI [ "--flip" ]
.RI [ "--512" ]
.RI [ "--psf1" ]
.RI [ "--psf2" ]
.RI [ INPUTFILE 
.RI [ OUTPUTFILE ]]
.P
.PD 1
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
raw2psf converts various types of raw font file (ie, one containing only
bitmap font data with no headers) to the PSF format.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --height=n
Specifies the height of the characters. If the raw font is being read from
standard input, this option must be present; if not, it is guessed from the
file size, but can be overridden if necessary.
.TP
.B --width=n
Specifies the width of the characters (default is 8 bits, 1 byte).
.TP
.B --flip
Mirrors all the bytes. For importing fonts from systems such as the Apricot Xi,
where the bit-to-pixel mapping is the reverse of normal.
.TP
.B --skip=n
Skip over n characters before starting to import. Use if a raw font file has
several fonts, to extract the second and subsequent fonts.
.TP
.B --first=n
Set the index of the first character to assign in the PSF (defaults to 0). 
Use if the raw font does not start with character 0; for example, 
Sinclair Spectrum fonts usually begin with character 32.
.TP
.B --last=n
Set the index of the last character to assign in the PSF (defaults to 255). 
.TP
.B --512
Equivalent to --first=0 --last=511
.TP
.B --psf1
Force output in the PSF1 format.
.TP
.B --psf2
Force output in the PSF2 format (default).
.TP
.B --codepage=page
Add a Unicode directory for the specified codepage, which can be identified
by number or name. See psfpages(1) for a list of valid codepage names.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\".SH BUGS
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
psf2raw(1), mda2psf(1), psfpages(1)
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
John Elliott <seasip.webmaster@gmail.com>.
.PP
