.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" txt2psf.1: psf2txt man page
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, 2007 John Elliott
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" psftools: Manipulate console fonts in the .PSF format
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, 2007  John Elliott
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH txt2psf 1 "11 April, 2008" "Version 1.0.7" "PSF Tools"
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH NAME
txt2psf - compile a PC Screen Font file from a textual description
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.B txt2psf
.RI [ --psf1 ]
.RI [ --psf2 ]
.RI [ INPUTFILE 
.RI [ OUTPUTFILE ]]
.P
.PD 1
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP 
txt2psf converts an ASCII source file to a font in the .PSF format.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH INPUT FILE FORMAT
.LP
The source file is composed of a header, followed by a series of 
character definitions. The first line of the header must be "%PSF2"; it
is followed by these fields, each on a separate line, in any order:
.TP
.B "Version: nnn"
File format version; currently this must be 0.
.TP
.B "Flags: nnn"
This is 1 if the font should include a Unicode table, else 0.
.TP
.B "Length: nnn"
The number of characters in this font. If it is too low, the extra 
characters will be ignored. Too high, and the extras will be left blank.
.TP
.B "Width: nnn"
The width of a character cell.
.TP
.B "Height: nnn"
The height of a character cell.
.LP
After the header, character definitions follow. Each character definition
starts as a "%" on a line by itself. It is then followed by two fields, in
any order.
.TP
.B "Bitmap: bitmapdata"
The bitmap is composed of width*height cells, each of which is either a '-' 
(zero) or a '#' (black). Whitespace is ignored. The bitmap can be 
spread over several lines; the bitmaps created by psf2txt(1) are, for example.
.TP
.B "Unicode: unicodestring"
This describes the Unicode characters this bitmap represents. It is formed 
"[single];[sing]e];...[sequence];[sequence];..." where 
.I single 
is a single hexadecimal number, and
.I sequence 
is two or more hexadecimal numbers separated by + signs. 
So "[41];" is an example of a single character, and "[00B4+0065];" 
is an example of a sequence. If the bitmap doesn't represent
any Unicode characters this field may be blank or simply missing.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --psf1
Force the resulting file to be in PSF1 format.
.TP
.B --psf2
Force the resulting file to be in PSF2 format.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH BUGS
.LP
The file format is too rigid, and the parser (such as it is) a quick hack.
.LP
The "Length:" header should not be necessary; txt2psf should be able to
calculate the file size itself.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
psf2txt(1)
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
John Elliott <jce@seasip.demon.co.uk>.
.PP
