.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" wyse2psf.1: wyse2psf man page
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, 2007 John Elliott
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" psftools: Manipulate console fonts in the .PSF format
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, 2007  John Elliott
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH wyse2psf 1 "11 April, 2008" "Version 1.0.7" "PSF Tools"
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH NAME
wyse2psf - convert a Wyse-60 soft font to a PC Screen Font file.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.B wyse2psf
.RI [ "--height=HEIGHT" ]
.RI [ "--width=WIDTH" ]
.RI [ "--codepage=CODEPAGE" ]
.RI [ "--psf1" ]
.RI [ "--psf2" ]
.RI [ INPUTFILE 
.RI [ OUTPUTFILE ]]
.P
.PD 1
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP 
wyse2psf converts a Wyse-60 soft-font (a sequence of Wyse-60 escape codes)
to the .PSF format.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --height=HEIGHT
Specifies the character height of the resulting PSF. If this is omitted the 
height of the tallest character in the soft font will be used.
.TP
.B --width=WIDTH
Specifies the character width of the resulting PSF. If this is omitted 8 will
be assumed.
.TP
.B --codepage=CODEPAGE
Add a Unicode directory for the specified codepage, which can be identified by
number or name. See psfpages(1) for a list of valid codepage names.
.TP
.B --psf1
Force output in the PSF1 format.
.TP
.B --psf2
Force output in the PSF2 format (default).

.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" .SH BUGS
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
pat2sf(1), sf2pat(1), psf2wyse(1)
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
John Elliott <jce@seasip.demon.co.uk>.
.PP
