.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" zx2psf.1: zx2psf man page
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, 2007 John Elliott
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" psftools: Manipulate console fonts in the .PSF format
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, 2007  John Elliott
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH zx2psf 1 "21 June, 2008" "Version 1.0.8" "PSF Tools"
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH NAME
zx2psf - convert a Spectrum font to PSF format
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.B zx2psf
.RI [ "--rom" ]
.RI [ "--sna" ]
.RI [ "--mode=bare" ]
.RI [ "--mode=merge1" ]
.RI [ "--mode=latin1" ]
.RI [ "--mode=synth1" ]
.RI [ "--graphics=none" ]
.RI [ "--graphics=block" ]
.RI [ "--graphics=udg" ]
.RI [ "--psf1" ]
.RI [ "--psf2" ]
.RI [ INPUTFILE 
.RI [ OUTPUTFILE ]]
.P
.PD 1
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
zx2psf converts a Spectrum font (either a +3DOS file, a TAP file with one
member, or a raw memory dump) to PSF format.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --rom
The file is a Spectrum ROM image; extract the embedded font.
.TP
.B --sna
The file is a Spectrum SNA snapshot image; if it contains a font, extract it.
This depends on the CHARS system variable having been set up so that the 
game outputs using the ROM routines; if the program in the snapshot uses 
some other form of output, it may leave CHARS alone or set it to a random 
value. For example, the font in the game 
.I 2112
cannot be found using this method.
.TP
.B --mode=bare
The Spectrum font is copied as-is. Characters outside the range defined
by the Spectrum are set to blank.
.TP
.B --mode=latin1
The Spectrum font is copied as-is. Characters outside the range defined
by the Spectrum are set to those in LAT1-01.PSF (which is based on 
ISO-8859-1, but with extra character shapes).
.TP
.B --mode=merge1
As latin1 above, but the pound sign, up arrow and copyright characters are
moved to their correct positions for ISO Latin-1.
.TP
.B --mode=synth1
As merge1, except that the Latin-1 characters are mostly generated from the 
Spectrum characters rather than being copied from LAT1-08.PSF. If this option
is used the font will require manual editing afterwards to make it look better.
.TP
.B --graphics=none
The graphics characters 128-159 will be blank (--mode=bare) or those
from LAT1-08.PSF (other modes).
.TP
.B --graphics=block
Characters 128-143 will be the Spectrum block graphics. 144-159 will be blank
(--mode=bare) or those from LAT1-08.PSF (other modes).
.TP
.B --graphics=udg
Characters 128-143 will be the Spectrum block graphics. If the --sna option
was present, characters 144-159 will be the first 16 user-defined graphics;
otherwise they will be copies of "A" to "P". If --mode=bare is set, characters
160-164 will be the last five UDGs (if the --sna option is present) or copies
of "Q" to "U" (otherwise).
.TP
.B --psf1  Output in the PSF1 format.
.TP
.B --psf2  Output in the PSF2 format (default).
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH BUGS
The whole Latin-1 thing is ugly. Fortunately zx2psf always puts a 
correct Unicode directory on the resulting file, so Unicode-aware
utilities should always be able to find the correct character.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
psf2zx(1)
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
John Elliott <jce@seasip.demon.co.uk>.
.PP
